Data Cleaner Module
-------------------

The Data Cleaner is Indicia's version of the `NBN Record Cleaner
<http://www.nbn.org.uk/record-cleaner.aspx>`_ tool, in other words Data Cleaner provides
verification of incoming records.

.. note::

  **Validation** is the process of ensuring that the format of a record is correct. A 
  valid record might still prove to be a misidenfication or have an incorrect date, but
  validation ensures that things like the grid references and dates associated with a 
  record are formatted correctly.
  
  **Verification** is the process of ensuring that a valid record is has a correctly
  identified species. It is an essential part of the process of biological recording
  since by verifying a record its potential usages are much greater, e.g. it might then
  be usable in a planning enquiry or for scientific research.

The Data Cleaner module is optional but must be enabled to perform automated verification checks against
incoming data. It does not perform any checks itself but coordinates the other rule
modules which are enabled on the warehouse, so you will need to enable at least one of the
other associated modules on the warehouse (these are modules whose folders start with 
``data_cleaner_``). The Data Cleaner Module

#. Runs when the scheduled_tasks.php link on the warehouse is called - see 
   `Setting up the scheduled_tasks <../scheduled-tasks>`.
#. Finds all new and modified records in websites where the **Enable auto-verification
   checks** option for the website is checked.
#. Runs a series of rule checks against the data. Each rule check is effectively an SQL 
   query statement defined in a sub-module enabled on the warehouse.
#. When violations are identified, comments are created against the record which detail 
   the violation. The comments are flagged so that it is clear they are auto-generated by 
   the data cleaner sub-module which generated them. Any previous comments from the same 
   module are removed so that comments do not accumulate if a record is re-verified.

Verification checks can also be requested for unsaved data if a recording form calls the
web services provided by the Data Cleaner module, e.g. by using the
``data_entry_helper::verifiation_panel`` control or by selecting the **Include
verification precheck button** option on a dynamic form. For more information on the web
services that support this feature please refer to the :doc:`developer documentation
<../../../developing/web-services/import-services>`.
  